Growing up in Canada,
I had a view of what hospitality was.
Hospitality was
to have the brothers and sisters over,
get to know them, and share a meal together
—something that I planned to offer to them.
I don’t think I ever realized
how much I had been influenced
by my own culture
in defining what I thought
hospitality was.
Culture has a very big effect on us.
In our culture
young ones are not trusted very much.
They are not given responsibility.
I have seen the effect of the culture
inside the congregation,
especially when the question
of giving younger ones
more privileges of service,
or assignments, came up.
When it was discussed among the elders,
it would not really be considered.
And so the desire would be
for him to wait a little bit longer
—mature a little more
and gain more life experience.
I also thought the same way.
When I look back now,
I realize that it really wasn’t right
because Jehovah’s thinking isn’t like that.
So when I attended
the special convention in Ukraine,
my view of what hospitality was
changed completely.
We get off the plane;
all the brothers are there;
we see the love.
We’re overwhelmed by just the quantity
of brothers that are there
—their smiles, their expressions.
As the days went on,
it was clear
that they were just looking
for what we needed.
And it was more than, you know,
just giving us some food
and spending some time with us.
There were so many
other things that they did
that covered every one
of our needs
when I was not sure that their own needs
were being covered at times.
They knew they just wanted
to be there, and they’d figure out
the rest when they got there.
And that really impressed me and my wife.
I do remember one night
getting back to the hotel,
and we had a moment
to just really think
about what we’d seen that day
and started to ask ourselves
if we’d ever gone to the same extent.
Where I’m from,
we tend to stick
with what we’re very comfortable with.
I realized that I really
had unknowingly been putting limits
on hospitality
because of what I was comfortable with
—because of the culture where I grew up—
whereas the experience in Ukraine
helped me to see
that we can break
that barrier down so much faster.
We could definitely feel that this was
what Jehovah’s view of hospitality was.
It was about looking
for what others need and filling those needs.
In time, my thinking changed
because I realized Jehovah’s way of thinking.
The videos produced by Jehovah’s organization
and what I watched in them
helped my view to change.
I could actually see what a young brother
or a young elder could do.
In the past, we used to focus on experience.
I would too.
But now Jehovah’s viewpoint
is more important than just experience.
Jehovah doesn’t only focus on experience
but also on spiritual qualities.
I came to realize that.
So after we experienced
the special convention in Ukraine
and returned home,
we decided that we needed to consider
this more as a Family Worship project.
We realized we did have to make
some adjustments.
We realized we did want to do more.
So we had to set specific goals
to be able to strip away
our previous definition of hospitality
and start extending it
beyond what we were comfortable with.
It takes work
to continually break free from the limits
that we might set for ourselves.
And it was something that we realized
—we needed to make some changes
if we were going to maintain
Jehovah’s view of hospitality moving forward.
Of course, the influence
of the culture doesn’t go away overnight.
We still need to work hard on it.
We still have to change
because traces of the culture
can still be left over.
But I realized
we definitely need to get rid of it.
Now I’m really pleased
to serve with those young brothers,
to talk with them,
and to see their potential
as Jehovah sees it.
We can also see
that Jehovah is very pleased too.
Jehovah is overjoyed.
He’s proud to see
what those young brothers do.